README.md, before:

# XSim
[![Swift](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-FA7343?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/apple/swift)
[![LICENSE: MIT SUSHI-WARE🍣](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/watasuke102/mit-sushi-ware/master/MIT-SUSHI-WARE.svg)](https://github.com/mui-z/xsim/blob/main/LICENSE)


simple xcrun simctl wrapper.


## Install

```sh
mint install mui-z/xsim
```


## Usage

```sh
% xsim help

Usage: xsim <command> [options]

Xcode Simulator management tool – shortcuts for simctl commands

Commands:
  run             Run a simulator (default)
  list            List available simulators
  boot            Boot a simulator
  shutdown        Shutdown simulators
  create          Create a new simulator
  delete          Delete a simulator
  doctor          Check environment and simctl support
  help            Prints help information
  version         Prints the current version of this app
```


List filters and sorting:

```sh
# filter by runtime (flexible):
xsim list --runtime "iOS 26"
xsim list --runtime "26.0"
xsim list --runtime com.apple.CoreSimulator.SimRuntime.iOS-26-0

# runtimes are grouped and sorted by platform (iOS, watchOS, tvOS) and version (desc)
```


List filters and sorting:

```sh
# filter by runtime (flexible)
xsim list --runtime "iOS 26"
xsim list --runtime "26.0"
xsim list --runtime com.apple.CoreSimulator.SimRuntime.iOS-26-0

# filter by device name substring (case-insensitive)
xsim list --name-contains "iPhone"

# runtimes are grouped and sorted by platform (iOS, watchOS, tvOS) and version (desc)
```

Full width by default; compact view:

```sh
# default is full width (no truncation)
xsim list

# opt-in to truncated, aligned columns (legacy):
xsim list --truncate
```


Debug logging:

```sh
# enable verbose debug logs to stderr
XSIM_VERBOSE=1 xsim list
```
Quick start:

```sh
# If no simulators are running, this starts the most recently used
xsim

# Same behavior as an explicit command
xsim run
```

Commit message:

refactor(cli): remove 'run' command and fold behavior into 'boot'\n\n- Delete RunCommand (not a simctl verb)\n- Allow 'xsim boot' with no args to boot last used when none running\n- Remove registration and update README

README.md, after:

# XSim
[![Swift](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-FA7343?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/apple/swift)
[![LICENSE: MIT SUSHI-WARE🍣](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/watasuke102/mit-sushi-ware/master/MIT-SUSHI-WARE.svg)](https://github.com/mui-z/xsim/blob/main/LICENSE)


simple xcrun simctl wrapper.


## Install

```sh
mint install mui-z/xsim
```


## Usage

```sh
% xsim help

Usage: xsim <command> [options]

Xcode Simulator management tool – shortcuts for simctl commands

Commands:
  list            List available simulators
  boot            Boot a simulator
  shutdown        Shutdown simulators
  create          Create a new simulator
  delete          Delete a simulator
  doctor          Check environment and simctl support
  help            Prints help information
  version         Prints the current version of this app
```


List filters and sorting:

```sh
# filter by runtime (flexible):
xsim list --runtime "iOS 26"
xsim list --runtime "26.0"
xsim list --runtime com.apple.CoreSimulator.SimRuntime.iOS-26-0

# runtimes are grouped and sorted by platform (iOS, watchOS, tvOS) and version (desc)
```


List filters and sorting:

```sh
# filter by runtime (flexible)
xsim list --runtime "iOS 26"
xsim list --runtime "26.0"
xsim list --runtime com.apple.CoreSimulator.SimRuntime.iOS-26-0

# filter by device name substring (case-insensitive)
xsim list --name-contains "iPhone"

# runtimes are grouped and sorted by platform (iOS, watchOS, tvOS) and version (desc)
```

Full width by default; compact view:

```sh
# default is full width (no truncation)
xsim list

# opt-in to truncated, aligned columns (legacy):
xsim list --truncate
```


Debug logging:

```sh
# enable verbose debug logs to stderr
XSIM_VERBOSE=1 xsim list
```
Boot convenience:

```sh
# Boot the most recently used simulator when none are running
xsim boot

# Boot a specific device by name or UUID
xsim boot "iPhone 15"
xsim boot 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
```
